README.md, before:

# lightweight-lsat

The Complete Lightweight LSAT in HTML form.

## This is Version 0.6

Currently, the Lightweight LSAT provides a basic System for mastering the LSAT.

It reflects my experience achieving a perfect score and 4 years of teaching the Test.

Since the LSAT is not a knowledge test, but a skills test, the Lightweight System emphasizes intentional and iterative skill-building.

The site purposefully leaves out many details and nuances in order to (a) focus on the essentials and (b) encourage users to teach themselves.

Users are expected to revise, adapt, expand, and simplify the Lightweight LSAT system based on their experience on actual questions. Actual questions are not provided, as they are available from the LSAC directly.

## Design

The site's design is intentionally minimal: mostly grid-based CSS and Markdown. There are no scripts or cookies or user tracking of any kind.

The site is built using [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) so that it can be written and revised in Markdown.

You'll find the actual content of the site in the Markdown files contained under "pages."

## Collaboration

Email feedback@lightweightlsat.com to share ideas or volunteer@lightweightlsat.com to offer to help. Or use GitHub's issues to spot typos/mistakes/areas for improvement.

## Areas for Future Growth

### Interactivity

Since v3 the site now uses the HTML details tag to selectively hide information to encourage students to think as they read.

This strategy could be expanded to more pages, and more interactive strategies (such as automatically graded quizzes) may be added.

### Organization and Consistency

Linking is somewhat inconsistent.

Vocabulary use is more consistent, but certainly requires some updates.

### Publicity

The site has not been shared widely.

### Videos

I may develop videos to accompany the site and provide more walk-throughs.

### Workshops

I may offer live, pay-what-you-can workshops in the future.

## Intellectual Property

All original content is protected by Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0. This means you may adapt and share it for any purpose, as long as you both (1) give appropriate credit and (2) share under similarly open terms. See [the License](LICENSE.txt) for more information.

Content owned by other parties, notably the LSAC, is used to the degree permitted by law under the principles of Fair and Nominative Use.

As the site disclaims on every page: The LSAC does not approve of this website. And I do not approve of the LSAC.

Commit message:

moved files set up navigation

README.md, after:

# lightweight-lsat

The Complete Lightweight LSAT in HTML form.

## This is Version 0.6

Currently, the Lightweight LSAT provides a basic System for mastering the LSAT.

It reflects my experience achieving a perfect score and 4 years of teaching the Test.

Since the LSAT is not a knowledge test, but a skills test, the Lightweight System emphasizes intentional and iterative skill-building.

The site purposefully leaves out many details and nuances in order to (a) focus on the essentials and (b) encourage users to teach themselves.

Users are expected to revise, adapt, expand, and simplify the Lightweight LSAT system based on their experience on actual questions. Actual questions are not provided, as they are available from the LSAC directly.

## Design

The site's design is intentionally minimal. 
It is built using MkDocs using the Material theme to take advatange of built-in features like search, comments, and navigation.

Outside of comments, (via github discussions), and donations (via stripe), the site collects no user data.

Here on GitHub, you'll find the actual content of the site in the markdown files under "docs."

## Collaboration

Email feedback@lightweightlsat.com to share ideas or volunteer@lightweightlsat.com to offer to help. 

Or use GitHub's discussions to note mistakes, confusing language, or other areas for improvement.

## Areas for Future Growth

### Publicity

The site has not been shared widely.

### Videos

I may develop videos to accompany the site and provide more walk-throughs.

## Intellectual Property

All original content is protected by Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0. This means you may adapt and share it for any purpose, as long as you both (1) give appropriate credit and (2) share under similarly open terms. See [the License](LICENSE.txt) for more information.

Content owned by other parties, notably the LSAC, is used to the degree permitted by law under the principles of Fair and Nominative Use.

As the site disclaims on every page: The LSAC does not approve of this website. And I do not approve of the LSAC.
